# Privacy

### Privacy is the right of an individual to control the distribution of information about themselves. While security and privacy both focus on the protection of personal and sensitive data, there is a difference between them. With the increasing rate at which data is collected and digitally stored across all industries, the push for privacy legislation and compliance with existing policies steadily grows. In today’s global economy, privacy legislation and regulations on privacy and data protection can impact corporations and industries regardless of physical location. Global privacy is an especially crucial issue when considering requirements regarding the collection and security of personal information. There are several laws that define privacy and data protection, which periodically change. Ensuring that protective security measures are in place is not enough to meet privacy regulations or to protect a company from incurring penalties or fines from mishandling, misuse, or improper protection of personal or private information. An example of a law with multinational implications is the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which applies to all organizations, foreign or domestic, doing business in the EU or any persons in the EU. Companies operating or doing business within the United States may also fall under several state legislations that regulate the collection and use of consumer data and privacy. Likewise, member nations of the EU enact laws to put GDPR into practice and sometimes add more stringent requirements. These laws, including national- and state-level laws, dictate that any entity anywhere in the world handling the private data of people in a particular legal jurisdiction must abide by its privacy requirements. As a member of an organization's data protection team, you will not be required to interpret these laws, but you will need an understanding of how they apply to your organization.

