# Network segmentation for Embedded Systems and IoT

### An embedded system is a computer implemented as part of a larger system. The embedded system is typically designed around a limited set of specific functions in relation to the larger product of which it is a component. Examples of embedded systems include network-attached printers, smart TVs, HVAC controls, smart appliances, smart thermostats and medical devices. 

### Network-enabled devices are any type of portable or nonportable device that has native network capabilities. This generally assumes the network in question is a wireless type of network, typically provided by a mobile telecommunications company. Network-enabled devices include smartphones, mobile phones, tablets, smart TVs or streaming media players (such as a Roku Player, Amazon Fire TV, or Google Android TV/Chromecast), network-attached printers, game systems, and much more. 

### The Internet of Things (IoT) is the collection of devices that can communicate over the internet with one another or with a control console in order to affect and monitor the real world. IoT devices might be labeled as smart devices or smart-home equipment. Many of the ideas of industrial environmental control found in office buildings are finding their way into more consumer-available solutions for small offices or personal homes.  

### Embedded systems and network-enabled devices that communicate with the internet are considered IoT devices and need special attention to ensure that communication is not used in a malicious manner. Because an embedded system is often in control of a mechanism in the physical world, a security breach could cause harm to people and property. Since many of these devices have multiple access routes, such as ethernet, wireless, Bluetooth, etc., special care should be taken to isolate them from other devices on the network. You can impose logical network segmentation with switches using VLANs, or through other traffic-control means, including MAC addresses, IP addresses, physical ports, protocols, or application filtering, routing, and access control management. Network segmentation can be used to isolate IoT environments. 

