# Cloud deployment models

### There are four cloud deployment models. The cloud deployment model also affects the breakdown of responsibilities of the cloud-based assets. 

#### 1) Public: Public clouds are what we commonly refer to as the cloud for the public user. It is very easy to get access to a public cloud. There is no real mechanism, other than applying for and paying for the cloud service. It is open to the public and is, therefore, a shared resource that many people will be able to use as part of a resource pool. A public cloud deployment model includes assets available for any consumers to rent or lease and is hosted by an external cloud service provider (CSP). Service level agreements can be effective at ensuring the CSP provides the cloud-based services at a level acceptable to the organization.

#### 2) Private: Private clouds begin with the same technical concept as public clouds, except that instead of being shared with the public, they are generally developed and deployed for a private organization that builds its own cloud. Organizations can create and host private clouds using their own resources. Therefore, this deployment model includes cloud-based assets for a single organization. As such, the organization is responsible for all maintenance. However, an organization can also rent resources from a third party and split maintenance requirements based on the service model (SaaS, PaaS or IaaS). Private clouds provide organizations and their departments private access to the computing, storage, networking and software assets that are available in the private cloud.

#### 3) Hybrid: A hybrid cloud deployment model is created by combining two forms of cloud computing deployment models, typically a public and private cloud. Hybrid cloud computing is gaining popularity with organizations by providing them with the ability to retain control of their IT environments, conveniently allowing them to use public cloud service to fulfill non-mission-critical workloads, and taking advantage of flexibility, scalability and cost savings. Important drivers or benefits of hybrid cloud deployments include: Retaining ownership and oversight of critical tasks and processes related to technology, Reusing previous investments in technology within the organization, Control over most critical business components and systems, and Cost-effective means to fulfilling noncritical business functions (utilizing public cloud components).

#### 4) Community: Community clouds can be either public or private. What makes them unique is that they are generally developed for a particular community. An example could be a public community cloud focused primarily on organic food, or maybe a community cloud focused specifically on financial services. The idea behind the community cloud is that people of like minds or similar interests can get together, share IT capabilities and services, and use them in a way that is beneficial for the particular interests that they share.
