# Cloud Service Models

### Some cloud-based services only provide data storage and access. When storing data in the cloud, organizations must ensure that security controls are in place to prevent unauthorized access to the data. 

### There are varying levels of responsibility for assets depending on the service model. This includes maintaining the assets, ensuring they remain functional, and keeping the systems and applications up to date with current patches. In some cases, the cloud service provider is responsible for these steps. In other cases, the consumer is responsible for these steps. 

### Types of cloud computing service models include:

#### 1) Software as a Service (SaaS): Software as a Service (SaaS): A cloud provides access to software applications such as email or office productivity tools. SaaS is a distributed model where software applications are hosted by a vendor or cloud service provider and made available to customers over network resources. SaaS is a widely used and adopted form of cloud computing, with users most often needing an internet connection and access credentials to have full use of the cloud service, application and data. SaaS has many benefits for organizations, which include but are not limited to: Ease of use and limited/minimal administration. Automatic updates and patch management. The user will always be running the latest version and most up-to-date deployment of the software release, as well as any relevant security updates, with no manual patching required. Standardization and compatibility. All users will have the same version of the software release.

#### 2) Platform as a Service (PaaS): Platform as a Service (PaaS): A cloud provides an environment for customers to use to build and operate their own software. PaaS is a way for customers to rent hardware, operating systems, storage and network capacity over the internet from a cloud service provider. The service delivery model allows customers to rent virtualized servers and associated services for running existing applications or developing and testing new ones. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure, including network, servers, operating systems or storage, but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application-hosting environment configurations. A PaaS cloud provides a toolkit for conveniently developing, deploying and administering application software that is structured to support large numbers of consumers, process very large quantities of data and potentially be accessed from any point on the internet. PaaS clouds will typically provide a set of software building blocks and a set of development tools such as programming languages and supporting run-time environments that facilitate the construction of high-quality, scalable applications. Additionally, PaaS clouds will typically provide tools that assist with the deployment of new applications. In some cases, deploying a new software application in a PaaS cloud is not much more difficult than uploading a file to a web server. PaaS clouds will also generally provide and maintain the computing resources (e.g., processing, storage and networking) that consumer applications need to operate. PaaS clouds provide many benefits for developers, including that the operating system can be changed and upgraded frequently, along with associated features and system services.

#### 3) Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): A cloud provides network access to traditional computing resources such as processing power and storage. IaaS models provide basic computing resources to consumers. This includes servers, storage, and in some cases, networking resources. Consumers install operating systems and applications and perform all required maintenance on the operating systems and applications. Although the consumer has use of the related equipment, the cloud service provider retains ownership and is ultimately responsible for hosting, running and maintenance of the hardware. IaaS is also referred to as hardware as a service by some customers and providers. IaaS has a number of benefits for organizations, which include but are not limited to: Ability to scale up and down infrastructure services based on actual usage. This is particularly useful and beneficial where there are significant spikes and dips within the usage curve for infrastructure. Retain system control at the operating system level.
